in this video we are going to extend the
first Jenkins job I created in the
previous video you will learn how to
pull from github only the code that you
need for the job how to pass a parameter
to a Jenkins job and how to build the
job periodically without any further ado
let's extend the Jenkins job we start
from where we left in the previous video
when we successfully run our first
Jenkins job if we look at the workspace
we can see that the full github
repository was downloaded to build this
job this is unnecessary since we only
need a single script to run this job if
you pull a large code base each time
your Jenkins job will take longer to
execute you can avoid this by pulling
from github only the code that you need
let's see how to do this click on
configure to change the configuration of
this job and the source code management
go to additional behaviors click add
scroll down and select the sparse
checkout paths a sparse check out in
gate allows you to pull out only the
code within a specific directory in our
case we want to retrieve only the code
in section under school to forward slash
code save the new configuration and
delete the current workspace by clicking
on workspace wipe out current workspace
and confirm the action this allows to
start from a fresh workspace and force a
new code pool at the next job execution
finally run the job by clicking on build
now if you access the workspace you will
see that now only the code inside the
specified directory is pulled out we
saved space on our machine and the job
executed faster you will notice the
difference when you pool large
repositories now let's look at how to
pass a parameter in Jenkins
for illustrating this we are going to
use a different script named Ella World
and the school parameter dot sh you can
inspect the code of this shell script on
the companion github repository to this
video course we want to customize the
message display to the output so instead
of the string hello world we use a
variable called name inside the shell
script this variable is passed directly
from the Jenkins job let's see how to do
that go back to Jenkins and click on
configure to access the configuration of
the job in general we take the option
this project is parameterised and click
on add parameter and string parameter
and the name we define the name of the
variable associated with this string
parameter if we look at the code on
github we can see that the variable is
called name therefore we type name you
can add a default value this will be
picked up by default it can also be
overwritten by the user at runtime we'll
see how to do this when we run the job
for now let's put Jenkins as default
value is always good to add the
description to a parameter so here we
describe what this parameter is supposed
to do now let's go to build section and
change the script used to run this build
this time we invoke the script hello
world and the scope parameter dot Sh
finally click on save to save the new
configuration you can see that the side
menu has now changed the option built
now into build with parameters this is
because we added a parameter to this job
click on build with parameters and you
can see the settings we just configured
you can override the variable name with
whichever string value you prefer click
on build to run the job with the
parameter going to the console output
by clicking on the build status icon you
can see that the Jenkins job executed
successfully and use the value of the
parameter passed to the job
the last option I want to show you is
how to run a job periodically for
example you might want to run a job on a
given schedule say once a day or every
hour let's see how to do that go back to
the project and click on configure to
access the configuration of this job
then go to build trigger and tick the
option build periodically inside
schedule you need to enter the Krone
syntax to specify the time you can read
how the Krone syntax works and see some
useful examples by clicking on the
question mark for example i'm going to
copy the syntax to run the job every 15
minutes paste it in schedule and change
it to run every 2 minutes
if you click outside the schedule box
you will see when the job is scheduled
to run next time click on save and wait
to see the job kicking off you can
enable the auto refresh in order to
automatically refresh the page every few
seconds you can see that the job
executed at the scheduled time at the
end do not forget to disable the auto
refresh and to change the configuration
and disable the option to run job
periodically that would be a waste of
resources for your computer well done
you extended your first Jenkins job with
some useful advanced options this is the
end of section 2 let's recap what you
learned in this section in terms of
theory we looked at some key concepts
and core terminology in Jenkins that we
use extensively during the demos in the
practical parts we explore the Jenkins
dashboard and admin console configured
and executed the first Jenkins job and
then extended it with some advanced
options
so now test what you learn in this
section by heading to the companion
github repository in here you will find
a few questions to test your Jenkins
knowledge and the practical exercise you
will also find some suggested solutions
to the exercises and if you want you can
enter
with me by a github in the next section
we are going to learn how continuous
integration CI and continuous delivery
CD are and set up a continuous
integration workflow with Jenkins